---
_fieldset: page
title: Medical Records
img_primary: /assets/img/Medical Records.jpg
listing_description: Patients requesting access to or copies of their individual medical records may contact the department Monday through Friday, from 8AM to 5PM, at 651.602.7220.
---
<hr><h3>At St. Paul Radiology Your Medical Records are Kept Confidential and Secure</h3><p>The Medical Records Department maintains the confidential medical records of St. Paul Radiology’s patients. These records may include both medical images and reports. The Health Insurance Privacy and Accountability Act of 1996 requires that St. Paul Radiology use reasonable judgment in maintaining the medical privacy of its patients. For further information see St. Paul Radiology’s <a href="http://www.stpaulradiology.com/for-patients/billing-and-privacy-policies" target="_blank">privacy policies</a> on this website.</p><p>Patients requesting access to or copies of their individual medical records may contact the department during normal business hours of 8:00AM to 5:00PM Monday through Friday, excluding holidays at <a href="tel: 651.602.7220">651.602.7220</a>. Upon appropriate request, St. Paul Radiology will provide its patients a CD or films of the studies required and a copy of reports requested. Requests can be made by telephone during normal business hours. At the time of request, arrangements will be made for distribution or pick-up of the information at any St. Paul Radiology location.</p><p>Please note, appropriate identification will be requested upon pick-up of any medical information. If any person other than the patient is to pick up films/CD or records, a note written by the patient authorizing such pick-up is required. Any request for distribution to an address other than the patient billing address must be made in writing to this address:</p><p><strong>St. Paul Radiology, P.A.<br></strong>Medical Records Department<br>166 4th Street East<br>St. Paul, MN 55101-1421<br>(T) <a href="tel: 651.602.7220">651.602.7220</a><br>(F) <a href="tel: 651.292.2193">651.292.2193</a><span></span></p>