---
title: Proof of Image
img_primary: /assets/img/news-and-events/Proof of Image.jpg
category: News
tags:
  - medicine
---
<h4>“Proof of Image” by MD News</h4><p>In today’s health care industry, with expanding choices for patients, customer care can be just as important as the clinical care a practice provides. As demonstrated by the results of a survey that has been running since May 2011, St. Paul Radiology is receiving high marks in patient satisfaction to match its expertise in subspecialty imaging and radiology services.</p><p>By utilizing the online software tool Survey Monkey, St. Paul Radiology has gathered key information from patients regarding their recent visits to any of the practice’s East Metro locations. The results of the e-mail survey have demonstrated consistent excellence: Of the more than 7,000 patients who responded, 98% were very pleased with the care they received.</p><p>“For years, we’ve communicated the importance of putting our patients first, but now we have the data to back it up,” says Michael Madison, M.D., President and CEO of St. Paul Radiology. “At times, medical imaging can be scary if it’s a computed tomography (CT) screening looking for answers to a specific symptom or a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) screening or X-ray for a sports-related injury. We try to ensure each patient’s experience with us — whether it is 5 minutes or one hour — is the best it can be.”</p><h4>The Data Report Card</h4><p>To capitalize on the advantages of modern technology, St. Paul Radiology reaches out electronically to patients via e–mail one day following their appointments. The survey covers key aspects of the visit, including the process of scheduling appointments, the manner in which patients were greeted upon arrival to one of the six St. Paul Radiology locations, the care they received and the way it was delivered, and the staff providing the care.</p><p>As John Messerschmidt, Director of Practice Development at St. Paul Radiology, explains, the practice designed the survey with straightforward questions so as not to take up more than two minutes of the patient’s time. He also adds that the decision to send the survey out just one day after a patient’s visit was deliberate and has proved to be an effective method of gathering information when it’s relevant and fresh in the patient’s mind. Historically, patient satisfaction questionnaires of this kind receive a 1% to 5% response rate. St. Paul Radiology has seen 35% — and sometimes closer to 40% — of its patients return completed surveys.</p><p>“Our patients are in a very unique position to offer us valuable feedback to help guide our ongoing quest to improve the patient experience,” says Messerschmidt. “The patients bring great perspective and insight when utilizing our imaging centers.”</p><p>The data received from the surveys is reviewed and analyzed on a daily basis. If necessary, the real–time data can be used to modify operational issues in a more efficient manner. Currently, patient feedback suggests that St. Paul Radiology is consistently achieving a high level of satisfaction. Messerschmidt explains that the practice has not needed to fix or change any major issues with patient workflow or in the care environment. However, when future developments — such as launching a new clinical imaging application or a new technology–driven platform — occur, the ongoing patient feedback will facilitate smoother, more effective transitions.</p><h4>At Your Patient’s Service</h4><p>St. Paul Radiology offers a comprehensive array of imaging services, including bone density, colongraphy, CT screenings, mammography, traditional and open MRI, pain management injections, PET/CT, sedation, ultrasound, and X–ray. The practice further subspecializes in body, breast, general and interventional radiology; interventional neuroradiology; molecular imaging; musculoskeletal radiology; nuclear medicine; vein care; and pediatric, spine and women’s imaging. St. Paul Radiology also holds accreditation from the American College of Radiology in CT, PET and MRI equipment technology.</p><p>The practice’s wealth of specialty services are available at outpatient imaging centers in six East Metro locations, including Eagan, Maplewood, Roseville, Woodbury and two in downtown St. Paul. The Eagan office is also home to the practice’s Vein Center, which is dedicated to the evaluation and management of vein disease. Additionally, St. Paul Radiology has an Interventional Radiology clinic that provides diagnostic and minimally invasive treatment options for patients with a variety of medical conditions.</p><p>The practice provides comprehensive, subspecialty, final interpretations for all diagnostic imaging services 24 hours per day, seven days per week and 365 days per year to hospitals and clinics across the East Metro, Western Wisconsin and surrounding communities. St. Paul Radiology has a strong relationship with all East Metro health systems, including Regions Hospital, United Hospital, St. Joe’s Hospital, St. John’s Hospital, Woodwinds Hospital, Gillette Specialty Center, Shriner’s Hospital and Lakeview Hospital. Western Wisconsin facilities include River Falls Hospital, Westfields Hospital, Osceola Medical Center and Hudson Hospital.</p><p>“St. Paul Radiology has always been committed to providing our patients an environment where the patient comes first. We decided to take it a step further by offering each patient the opportunity to provide us feedback,” says Dr. Madison. “It’s one thing to assume our patients are having a great experience; however, when it’s consistently validated by our patients, it just confirms what we are doing really does matter.”</p><h4>What Patients Are Saying</h4><p>Read feedback from real St. Paul Radiology patients, as expressed in the practice’s satisfaction survey. To see more of what the practice’s patients are saying, click <a href=" http://www.stpaulradiology.com/about/our-patients-speak" target="_blank">here</a>.</p><p>“I have been going to the St. Paul Radiology – Downtown location for imaging since being diagnosed with cancer in 2003. I have always been treated kindly and respectfully, and I can’t imagine going anywhere else.”</p><p>“Everyone was great! They were so accommodating to my hearing loss and were just so kind and informative. I was very pleased with my visit and felt very comfortable. I would recommend this center to anyone!”</p><p>“It was such a pleasure meeting Dr. [James K.] Goddard [M.D.]. We felt totally at ease because we trusted his expertise and his knowledge. He was truthful and frank with us. His bedside manner is the best we’ve ever experienced. It’s one of those moments when you know you couldn’t be meeting with a better doctor. Thank you, Dr. Goddard.”</p><p>“Very prompt greetings at the front desk. The appointment was on time. Very friendly and professional, exceptional customer care. Making the appointment was very easy. Wish all medical appointments were so great.”</p>