---
title: St. Paul Radiology Foundation Donates $10,000
img_primary: /assets/img/news-and-events/Best Docs for Women by Minnesota Monthly.jpg
category: News
tags:
  - doctors
  - news
---
<h4>St. Paul Radiology Foundation Donates $10,000 to Help Ensure Solid Foundation for Radiology Research</h4><p>With a donation of $10,000 St. Paul Radiology Foundation is leading the way in improving patient care, diagnosis and treatment with their support of research and education in radiology. This contribution to the Radiological Society of North America’s (RSNA) Research & Education Foundation will be used to fund discoveries in CT dose reduction, breast cancer diagnosis and treatment, pediatric brain tumors and new methods of cancer detection.</p><p>The R&E Foundation's Visionaries In Practice (VIP) Giving Program is an avenue for medical imaging practices to give back to their patients and their community. Research being funded at major medical institutions enables new treatments in their community—looking out for future patients by supporting valuable research and development. VIP professionals recognize the critical need to deliver funding to the brightest ideas in radiology.</p><p>“Our colleagues at St. Paul Radiology Foundation truly are visionary in their support of the future of Radiology and the medical imaging sciences,” said James P. Borgstede, M.D., chair of the R&E Foundation’s Board of Trustees. “They are helping to ensure that our patients benefit from the latest discoveries and techniques in the years to come. Today’s research is tomorrow’s practice.”</p><p>Since its inception in 1984, the RSNA Research and Education Foundation has awarded $40 million in grant support to nearly 1,000 investigators. A survey of former grant recipients indicates that each dollar granted by the Research and Education Foundation typically results in over 40 dollars’ worth of grant awards from other research organizations, such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH).</p>