---
_fieldset: page
title: New Patient Info
img_primary: /assets/img/New Patient Info.jpg
listing_description: We look forward to serving you at St. Paul Radiology. As a new patient, here are a few simple steps you can take to save time, become more informed, and be prepared for your visit.
---
<hr><h3>We Look Forward to Serving You at St. Paul Radiology</h3><p>St. Paul Radiology provides one central scheduling telephone number and fax for all outpatient imaging center locations. We also accept all forms of medical insurance.<br>
</p><p>We offer same day scheduling at St. Paul Radiology, and our professionals are ready top assist you from 7:30AM to 6:00PM, Monday through Friday. To schedule an appointment call <a href="tel:651-632-5700">651.632.5700</a>.</p><p>From registration to authorization, our process to gather information that enables the best patient care is complete and easy. Entrusting your medical care to St. Paul Radiology is a privilege not taken lightly by our staff and physicians.</p><p>Patients often have some anxiety about their diagnostic imaging procedure. Our goal is to ease any concerns, answer all your questions, and prepare you for your appointment. Here are a few simple steps you can take to save time, become more informed, and be prepared for your visit:<br>
</p><ol>	<li><strong>Ask for St. Paul Radiology by name</strong> - When outpatient diagnostic imaging is necessary you can choose your imaging provider. By choosing St. Paul Radiology for outpatient imaging it affects continuity of care when you become an inpatient at a Twin Cities East Metro hospital. Our providers will have immediate access to your St. Paul Radiology outpatient imaging studies for efficient diagnosis outcomes.</li>	<li><strong>Get a written order</strong> - Allow your primary care physician or ordering physician time to place the order with St. Paul Radiology. With few exceptions, such as a screening mammogram, all diagnostic imaging appointments must be accompanied by a referral from your physician. The information on this order allows St. Paul Radiology to accurately schedule your procedure or appointment.</li>	<li><strong>Check your home and/or work schedule before calling St. Paul Radiology</strong> - Choose a few dates and times that work within your schedule. Have these available during your call to St. Paul Radiology.</li>	<li><strong>Assemble your personal information</strong> - The scheduler may ask for your birth date, a contact number and may have further questions regarding your health and medical history. This information ensures your appointment is scheduled correctly.</li>	<li><strong>Try to call from a private area that is noise free</strong> - By doing so both you and the scheduler will be able to verify information clearly and without interruption.</li>	<li><strong>Know your insurance requirements</strong> - Will this diagnostic imaging require pre-authorization? St. Paul Radiology can assist in obtaining a prior authorization for select insurance plans, but not all plans. If you have questions regarding prior authorization for diagnostic imaging, call us at <a href="tel:651-632-5700">651.632.5700</a>.</li>	<li><strong>Use this site to prepare</strong> - Print outs with detailed maps and pictures of <a href="http://www.stpaulradiology.com/contact/imaging-centers" target="_blank">our locations</a>, <a href="http://www.stpaulradiology.com/for-physicians/resources-and-downloads" target="_blank">patient education brochures</a>, and  <a href="http://www.stpaulradiology.com/assets/files/SPR_Patient_Registration_Form_2014.pdf" target="_blank">pre-registration forms</a>  are all available on this site.</li>	<li><strong>Have medical documents ready</strong> - Bring your medical insurance card, and any prior imaging if it was not performed at a site served by St. Paul Radiology. Imaging can be on CD, or hard copy films. These studies will be returned to you after the medical report is completed by our radiologist.</li>	<li><strong>Know and follow preparation instructions</strong> - Many exams require minimal preparation, others have important compliance instructions for your safety and to ensure diagnostic imaging quality for improved accuracy. These instructions will be provided to you at the time of scheduling and 24 to 48 hours in advance of your scheduled appointment when St. Paul Radiology calls to confirm the appointment.</li>	<li><strong>Please be patient, we know your time is valuable</strong> - At times, St. Paul Radiology may experience high call volumes. Every effort is made to minimize wait times while providing consistent, quality personal attention to each and every patient.</li>	<li><strong>Relax</strong> - The physicians and support staff at St. Paul Radiology are board certified and trusted medical imaging experts.<span></span></li>
</ol>