---
_fieldset: page
title: 'Scheduling & Hours'
img_primary: /assets/img/Scheduling and Hours.jpg
listing_description: St. Paul Radiology uses one scheduling telephone number, 651.632.5700, for all of its imaging center locations. We also offer same day scheduling, and accept all forms of insurance.
---
<hr><h3>Central Scheduling and Hours</h3><p>St. Paul Radiology provides one central scheduling telephone number and fax for all outpatient imaging center locations. We also offer same day scheduling, and accept all forms of medical insurance. Simplify your referral process, call us today!</p><strong>Central Scheduling Hours:</strong><ul>	<li>7:30AM to 6:00PM</li>	<li>Monday through Friday</li>
</ul><strong>Schedule An Appointment:</strong><ul>	<li>Telephone: <a href="tel: 651.632.5700">651.632.5700</a></li>	<li>Fax: <a href="tel: 651.632.5701">651.632.5701</a></li>
</ul><h3>Procedure Preparation</h3>At St. Paul Radiology our goal is to ease any concerns, answer all your questions, and prepare you for your appointment ─ before you even arrive. Here are a few simple steps you can take to save time, become more informed, and be prepared for your visit:<ul>	<hr> 	<li><strong>Use this site to prepare</strong> - Print outs with <a href="http://www.stpaulradiology.com/contact/imaging-centers" target="_blank">detailed maps</a> and pictures of our locations, <a href="http://www.stpaulradiology.com/for-patients/resources-and-downloads" target="_blank">patient education brochures</a>, and <a href="/assets/files/SPR_Patient_Registration_Form_2014.pdf" target="_blank">pre-registration forms</a> are all available on this site.</li>	<hr> 	<li><strong>Have medical documents ready</strong> - Bring your medical insurance card, and any prior imaging if it was not performed at a site served by St. Paul Radiology. Imaging can be on CD, or hard copy films. These studies will be returned to you after the medical report is completed by our radiologist.</li>	<hr> 	<li><strong>Know and follow preparation instructions</strong> - Many exams require minimal preparation, others have important compliance instructions for your safety and to ensure diagnostic imaging quality for improved accuracy. These instructions will be provided to you at the time of scheduling and 24 to 48 hours in advance of your scheduled appointment when St. Paul Radiology calls to confirm the appointment.</li>	<hr> 	<li><strong>Please be patient, we know your time is valuable</strong> - At times, St. Paul Radiology may experience high call volumes. Every effort is made to minimize wait times while providing consistent, quality personal attention to each and every patient.</li>	<hr> 	<li><strong>Relax</strong> - The physicians and support staff at St. Paul Radiology are board certified and trusted medical imaging experts.</li>	<hr>
</ul><h3>Insurance Company Prior Authorization</h3>St. Paul Radiology can help with insurance company prior authorization requirements.